when a company fails it does not fire
their employees it goes through a
packaged bankruptcy right if anything
what happens is the people who have the
pensions inside those companies the
employees of these companies end up
owning more of the company the people
that get wiped out for the speculators
that own the unsecured tranches of debt
for the folks that own the equity and by
the way those are the rules of the game
that's right because these are the
people that purport to be the most
sophisticated investors in the world
they deserve to get wiped out but the
employees don't get wiped out that
moment has gone viral as a summation of
a lot of what's wrong with our economy
and what the crisis response should
would be the man being interviewed was
Timothy Pauly Hypatia he's the CEO of
social capital if you look at this chart
of US financial assets that he recently
tweeted out you can see why he's
advocating for billionaires and
millionaires to get financially wiped
out or at least some of them he joins me
now via Skype to explain Chaumont thank
you so much for joining us we really
appreciate it thanks for having me
absolutely tell us a little bit about
about the inspiration I guess of that
segment because so many I mean millions
were really inspired by what you had to
say as they look at the mismatch of how
Congress is responding to this crisis
and perhaps how we should think about
our financial system as we go forward
well I think the set up is important so
I have been lucky enough over the last
10 years to have invested billions of
dollars in private companies trying to
improve healthcare education climate
change space exploration and so a lot of
my comments come from the perspective of
somebody who is invested in many many
small businesses trying to be well-run
you know living by the rules and living
within the strict guardrails that are
defined for us as we try to become
successful and against that backdrop
what I can tell you is that it is very
difficult for us to know with any
certainty how these stimulus dollars can
actually positively affect us so for
good well-run businesses that were being
well-run before this crisis the ability
to know that you'll be able to keep your
employees on or that you
we'll be able to fund what you need is
very challenged that being said that
being said the worst front companies the
ones that have the most insecure balance
sheets the ones that have been the most
poorly run the ones that have had the
most profligate you know CEO
compensation packages and dysfunctional
boards are the first being rewarded in
frankly the simplest and easiest ways
and so the setup is very unfair the the
companies that are actually doing the
work on the ground the private
businesses or even the public ones that
have been trying to do the right thing
for years to save for a rainy day aren't
getting nearly as much help as the ones
that can yell the loudest and or
necessarily are the most dysfunctional
and in that I think both capitalists and
progressives have a lot to complain
about and that's sort of the genesis of
my commentary yeah I think I think
that's such a fundamental insight and
what is it about the airline industry in
particular that you're looking at there
that you were talking about in terms of
bankruptcy and how workers can come out
of that actually okay and that much of
this bailout so much of the money is
going to possibly be kind of the worst
within our financial system what is it
about that structure that speaks to a
broader thing in our economy well you
know Scott Wapner the host brought up
Airlines has an example but if you look
at that thread and you pull the string
you know in the last two decades the
airlines have declared bankruptcy I
think about 66 times so you know a
couple times a year three times a year
and they still exist and they're still
around at the same time what you have is
that most of the free cash flow dollars
that they generated so the things that
you and I would call our savings the
things that we should be putting into
our individual bank accounts for a rainy
day they did and they essentially
distributed that back to the board the
CEOs and the hedge funds that were the
largest proponents of that activity and
so they're in many ways a great example
of
not being prepared for exotica shocks
yet being disproportionately rewarded
the reality is that when many of these
airlines have gone through bankruptcy
all the jobs are largely preserved you
know Delta is a really interesting
example the last time they went and
filed for bankruptcy I think it was in
2012 or 13 they lost a hundred and fifty
seven jobs out of fifty five thousand
they now employ 90,000 people
so bankruptcies are actually a
structured way for companies to be able
to reasonably discharge debt now that
disproportionately affects sophisticated
investors but it doesn't necessarily and
usually doesn't disproportionately
affect employees or pensions and so you
know my whole idea is you have to let
capitalism and this is where
progressives and capitalists can agree
you have to let capitalism do its job in
moments like this because the amount of
money that were printing into the system
is so unbelievable you know soccer just
to give you an example we have now
printed more than 12 trillion dollars
into the economy just to give you a
sense of what that means that means that
we could have given every single person
in the United States their entire 2019
wages and paid off everybody's student
debt and still had five trillion dollars
for companies right that's what we've
done in the last four weeks and yet so
yeah right go ahead no I'm saying and so
when you're when you're acting at that
level of scale there are going to be
consequences and those consequences
unfortunately are going to yield its
head in the form of inflation down the
line it probably means that the folks
that are gonna get the bailout money who
frankly only had to commit to not firing
people until September will
unfortunately probably just wait till
October and then just do it them and so
it doesn't necessarily put these
companies in a better position to thrive
in the medium and long term and that
will disproportionately negatively
affect employees intentions I think this
is the most important point a year that
you're making here and I think one of
the reasons that that rant kind of went
viral was that it was somebody kind of
of your ilk you know traditionally
thought of in the biz
this community and investor saying let
these things get wiped out how do you
how is that reconciled I guess I mean is
was there backlash against you in the
business community or maybe do you just
would you represent you know a newer way
of thinking about American business no I
just think that I think a lot of people
believe that capitalism is best when
it's left to run as a meritocracy
otherwise you only have two paths when
capitalism veers off the tracks
it becomes crony capitalism or it
becomes a kleptocracy or both and I
don't think we want that in America and
so for capitalism to do its job in a
moment like this you have to allow a
more compassionate view of all of the
people that are really being effective
and the employee centric view would be
one that says let folks who understand
the balance sheets of these businesses
step in save them restructure them and
allow them to be better positioned in
the future with better guardrails on
things like CEO comp or things like
buybacks but if you allow the Fed
specifically in this case the obfuscate
how poorly run these businesses are then
they are going to fail but just at a
later point in time and the damage will
be that much more severe because the
amount of capital that they've consumed
between now and then is just going to
grow and I think that's the train wreck
that I think that we can avoid as a
society in the United States and along
with that there should be an
acknowledgement of the obvious which is
that the United States since World War
two has been a consumer led economy
meaning every individual US taxpayer and
citizen has been the one that's driven
this country to the forefront of all
countries and if we look at where we
people are losing revenue yes companies
are losing revenue but individuals are
losing their own salary and wages at
equal or disproportionately larger rates
and so if you can compliment capitalism
in the capital markets with compassion
in the social policy that we employ by
putting more money into
folks his hands and thinking about you
know retiring debt or protecting debt
levels of individuals as well as just
companies for example like if the Fed is
going to buy the junk debt of companies
there is no reason why they can't retire
the 1.4 trillion dollars of debt sitting
at the deal it's just the decision right
now your exact this is all just a matter
of political will and what society puts
its political will towards in a time of
crisis and you know I think we'd be a
lot better off if there are more people
and titans of American business like
yourself the thought this way really
appreciate your joining us Jamal thank
you so much thanks thanks again course
all right well at more rising for you
after this